#LyX 1.5.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 276
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass unswthesis
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\cite_engine natbib_authoryear
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\author "" 
\author "" 
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
A Chapter Template
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This is a UNSW thesis chapter template.
 Like the 
\series bold
main.lyx
\series default
 template that includes this one, it is set up to use the UNSW thesis layout.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
A Section header
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
You can easily break your chapter into sections.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
The first subsection
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
...
 and even subsections
\begin_inset Foot
status collapsed

\begin_layout Standard
This is a footnote.
 You should consult the LyX documents in the Help menu for more information
 about markup.
\end_layout

\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
A Second Section
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This second section includes a citation 
\begin_inset LatexCommand citep
key "LyX:2007"

\end_inset

 from the bibliography included in the 
\series bold
main.lyx
\series default
 file.
 The citation will be displayed as a [?] unless the entire thesis is built
 from the 
\series bold
main.lyx
\series default
 file.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
