#LyX 1.6.0rc3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 340
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass report
\options a4paper,titlepage
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing onehalf
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 0
\cite_engine natbib_authoryear
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\leftmargin 3cm
\topmargin 4cm
\rightmargin 3cm
\bottommargin 3cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip bigskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle fancy
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\author "" 
\author "" 
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section*
Parametric Cooling via an Opto-Acoustic Parametric Amplifier
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\noindent
\align center
Daniel C.
 Price
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\noindent
\align center
08 March 2008
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
1 Keywords
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Parametric interaction, Opto-Acoustic Parametric Amplifier (OAPA), optical
 modes, acoustic modes, 3-mode interaction 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
2 Supervisors
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Professor David Blair, Dr.
 Chunnong Zhao, Dr.
 Li Ju, School of Physics University of Western Australia 35 Stirling Highway,
 Nedlands, WA 6009 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
3 Research Plan
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection*
3.1 Aims
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The aim of this project is to ‘cool’ an acoustic mode of a mechanical resonator
 to the quantum ground state via parametric interaction with an Opto-Acoustic
 Parametric Amplifier (OAPA).
 The OAPA is a University of Western Australia (UWA) designed coupled laser
 cavity that overcomes a major limitation of conventional parametric cooling.
 If the mechanical mode can be cooled to the quantum ground state then it
 should be possible to observe the transition from classical to quantum
 behaviour.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection*
3.2 Significance
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There are a number of groups who have demonstrated significant parametric
 cooling by coupling a mechanical resonator to a specially tuned laser cavity.
 None of these groups have as yet reached the quantum ground state however,
 as there are major limitations that arise with the 2mode interaction techniques
 currently used.
 The OAPA represents a much better method of parametric cooling -it utilises
 3-mode parametric interactions, which affords lower laser intensity noise
 and phase noise requirements which limit parametric cooling experiments
 [1].
 The OAPA technique gives the UWA group a very good chance of being the
 first in the race to the ground state.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection*
3.3 Methods
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The OAPA utilises a resonant interaction between two optical resonators
 (a coupled laser cavity) and an acoustic resonator (mechanical oscillator).
 This creates an opto-acoustic coupling, so by ‘tuning’ the optical resonance
 conditions one can produce positive or negative acoustic gain [1].
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In the proposed tabletop experiment, a laser source enters an optical train
 (ie the OAPA); by tuning the OAPA using Mirror and Lens, the acoustic mode
 of the mechanical resonator can be parametrically cooled [1].
 To keep the OAPA locked on resonance, electronic feedback locking should
 be used, such as the Pound-Drever-Hall method used by Sascha W.
 Schediwy in his 2007 thesis on opto-mechanical resonators [2].
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection*
3.4 Status
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Parametric cooling projects have been undertaken before, notably by Antoine
 Heidmann’s group at the Universitaire Pierre et Marie Curie.
 Significant parametric cooling has been attained, however the 2-mode technique
 they have used is inferior to the 3-mode method invented by the UWA group,
 which is headed by my Honours supervisor, David G.
 Blair.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
No experiments have as yet been conducted into parametric cooling using
 an OAPA.
 The UWA group has however shown parametric interactions with weak negative
 gain, between sound and light by using the 80m suspended optical cavity
 at the Gingin High Optical Power Facility (GHPOF).
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The project is a spin-off from the investigations of the UWA Australian
 International Gravitational Research Centre (AIGRC) into parametric instabiliti
es in future interferomic gravitational wave detectors such as Advanced
 LIGO.
 It is predicted that parametric interactions between the test mass and
 the radiation circulating in the detector’s arms could cause acoustic modes
 to ‘ring up’ and increase in amplitude, rendering the detector useless.
 While the proposed parametric cooling experiment does not directly relate
 to controlling this instability, further investigation into parametric
 instabilities will act to increase both awareness of the issue and our
 knowledge of parametric interactions.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Currently, there is a clean optical laboratory set up at UWA for testing
 the optical configuration of an OAPA.
 The room consists of a 1064nm NdYAG laser, a Melles Griot workbench, all
 optical and electronic components required for mode locking and a vacuum
 chamber.
 While we do not have access to the mirrors required to create a functional
 OAPA, we should be able to attain parametric interactions with a niobium
 resonator (originally designed as a test-mass for the GHPOF), which will
 give hands-on experience with the apparatus used in conjunction with an
 OAPA.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
UWA's Chunnong Zhao has recently visited Universitaire Pierre et Marie Curie
 in Paris to organise a collaboration with Antoine Heidmann's group, who
 have access to the components required for an OAPA.
 These components and one of their laboratories have been set aside for
 July for Haixing Miao and myself to conduct parametric cooling experiments.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection*
3.5 Problems
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As the main experimental part of this project must be conducted in Paris,
 there is a time constraint within which to do the experiment.
 As such, I will be gaining hands on experience with similar apparatus in
 a clean laboratory at UWA before leaving for France.
 There are a number of obstacles to overcome before the UWA setup is 'useful':
 the test mass needs further vibrational isolation and the optical layout
 needs a slight rework to ensure the beam doesn't become non-linearly polarised.
 Steps are already underway to ensure these problems are rectified with
 time spare for the hands-on experience needed to ensure that I can spend
 all my time in Paris constructively.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
4 Benefits
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Success with this project would make the UWA team the first in the race
 to achieving quantum physics behaviour in a macroscopic system.
 As well as being a feat of great scientific dexterity, it would be a direct
 test of quantum theory.
 Furthermore, it would be a significant accomplishment that would generate
 a great deal of prestige and thus funding for the University .
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
5 Publications
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As the OAPA is a recent UWA innovation, many of the leading writers of the
 field are from UWA team, notably: David G.
 Blair, Haixing Miao, Slawomir Gras, Chunnong Zhao, Li Ju and Sascha W.
 Schediwy.
 V.B.
 Braginsky et al, from Moscow State University, were the first to document
 the parametric instabilities leading to the development of the OAPA.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The publications listed below have been integral to my study of parametric
 interactions; they also provide the references used in this Research Proposal.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
[1] Direct Amplification of Sound by Light, Chunnong Zhao, Li Ju, Haixing
 Miao, Slawomir Gras, Yaohui Fan & David G.
 Blair (2007) 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
[2] Optical Spring Parametric Interactions in a Macroscopic Opto-Mechanical
 Resonator, Sascha W.
 Schediwy B.Sc.
 (Hons), (2007) 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
[3] Three-Mode Opto-Acoustic Parametric Interactions with Coupled Cavity,
 H.X.
 Miao, C.N.
 Zhao, L.
 Ju, S.
 Gras, P.
 Barriga and D.G.
 Blair (2008) 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
6 Costs
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
While the experiment can be conducted as a table-top experiment, many of
 the mirrors need to be specifically designed, as does the mechanical resonator.
 To circumvent these production costs, it is proposed that UWA PhD student
 Haixing Miao and myself conduct the experiment in collaboration with a
 prominent group from the Univeristaire Pierre et Marie Curie, who are one
 of the leaders in parametric cooling.
 Their apparatus and experience will not only cut costs but also give our
 collaboration a strong chance of being the first in the race to the ground
 state.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
