#LyX 1.6.0rc3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 340
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass report
\options a4paper,titlepage
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing onehalf
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 0
\cite_engine natbib_authoryear
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle fancy
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\author "" 
\author "" 
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Abstract
A recent invention by researchers at the University of Western Australia
 (UWA), is the Opto-Acoustic Parametric Amplifier (OAPA).
 Essentially, it controls the vibration of a resonator by coupling it to
 optical degrees of freedom.
 Microresonator characterisation is an important preliminary step in the
 construction of an OAPA.
 Here, two schemes for determining the set of resonant frequencies of a
 microresonator and their corresponding Q-factors and mode shapes are discussed.
 The first was realised experimentally at Laboratoire Kastler Brossel (LKB)
 in Paris; the second at UWA in Perth.
 Both experiments were motivated by a collaborative effort between the two
 groups, who wish to create an OAPA to demonstrate mode damping and amplificatio
n.
 The results of these experiments are compared and contrasted against theoretica
l predictions and their benefits and downfalls are discussed.
 To complement this, a short overview of relevant theory and literature
 is also presented.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
