#LyX 1.6.0rc3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 340
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass report
\options a4paper,titlepage
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing onehalf
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 0
\cite_engine natbib_authoryear
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle fancy
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\author "" 
\author "" 
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter*
Acknowledgments
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
thispagestyle{empty}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In my life, whenever two roads have diverged in a yellow wood, I have always
 had someone there to guide me.
 And so unlike Robert Frost in his 1920 poem 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset


\emph on
The Road Not Taken
\emph default

\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

, I have never been required to make a decision upon which path to travel.
 This may explain my quasi-phobia of decision making, although my Mother
 attributes this to my starsign: Librans are epitomised by scales, so require
 balance and consequently have trouble weighing up decisions.
 In any case, I have ended up where I am because of the support I have received,
 and I have received much.
 I have not so much needed to choose 
\emph on
The Road Not Taken
\emph default
, as have had it chosen for me.
 And it 
\emph on
has
\emph default
 made all the difference.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I would like to thank all the people who have guided me in my life.
 Thank you to my family (Chris, Tim and Jen), whose emotional support and
 love has made my life a joy.
 Thank you to Lindall, for being the light at the end.
 And thank you to those lecturers and academic staff who have spurred me
 on toward something great and my fellow honours students for making the
 journey enjoyable.
 I owe much to these people, who have helped me to sculpt my life into something
 beautiful.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I owe special thanks to all those who have made the completion of my honours
 and my thesis a reality.
 Thank you Zhao, for imparting so much of your time and knowledge; I've
 learnt so much from you.
 Thank you David, the conductor of 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

the whispers of the universe
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 group, and of course Ju Li, for all your support throughout the concerto.
 A special thanks also to Haixing, for his company in Paris and mathematical
 prowess, as well as the other dwellers of room 2-52.
 I would also like to thank those at LKB in France: my time there was rewarding,
 enjoyable and in short, amazing.
 Thanks to Pierre-Francois for getting out of bed to pick me up early on
 a Sunday morning; to Antione for his positivity and wisdom; and an especially
 warm thanks to Chiara, for all of her help in the 
\emph on
manip
\emph default
 and for making sure Haixing and I wore our safety glasses and didn't electrocut
e ourselves.
 This thesis is but a weighted sum of fragments of knowledge you've all
 imparted to me.
 I am in your debt.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
