#LyX 1.6.0rc3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 340
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass report
\options a4paper,titlepage
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing onehalf
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 0
\cite_engine natbib_authoryear
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle fancy
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\author "" 
\author "" 
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter*
Achievements
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
thispagestyle{empty}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The results reported in this thesis represent a collaborative effort between
 the UWA and LKB groups.
 The technical achievements are detailed in the main body of this thesis
 and summarised in Chapter 5.
 It is however important to note my role in these results.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I, Daniel Price, spent July in Paris with the LKB group along with a UWA
 PhD student, Haixing Miao.
 During our time there we worked under the leadership of PhD student Chiara
 Molinelli and the supervision of Antione Heidmann.
 I completed many tasks in what was an intense experience, including: optical
 alignment, connection and control of electronic components by GPIB, data
 acquisition, technical drawing and finite element modelling, to list but
 a few.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Whilst the characterisation experiment detailed in Chapter 3 suffered an
 unfortunate blow, the techniques and skills I learnt in LKB instilled me
 with the confidence to carry out a similar scheme here at UWA.
 Under the supervision of Chunnong Zhao, David Blair and Li Ju, I implemented
 the experiment detailed in Chapter 4.
 Required tasks included: design of the optical train, optical alignment,
 soldering vacuum tank connections, connection and control of electronic
 components, data acquisition and data analysis.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A large portion of my time was spent finding vacuum leaks.
 I cut out new mylar seals and replaced almost all the tank's seals, but
 it appears the tank's main gasket is warped, which creates a large leak
 that inhibits the possible vacuum.
 As such, I had to change over to a different tank, which offered much better
 vacuum.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As a final note, in the second semester, I was joined a few times each week
 by a UWA science student, Mark Walkey.
 This was as part of a UWA science enrichment program aimed at giving hands-on
 laboratory experience to undergraduate students.
 I feel that this program was of benefit not only to Mark, but also to myself.
 His company and help with data acquisition proved invaluable.
 I would highly recommend that this enrichment program is continued in the
 future.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
