#LyX 1.6.8 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 345
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass scrreprt
\options a4paper,titlepage
\use_default_options false
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing onehalf
\use_hyperref true
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered false
\pdf_bookmarksopen false
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 1
\pdf_breaklinks false
\pdf_pdfborder false
\pdf_colorlinks false
\pdf_backref false
\pdf_pdfusetitle true
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 0
\cite_engine natbib_authoryear
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle fancy
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\author "" 
\author "" 
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset label
LatexCommand label
name "cha:Introduction"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Note Note
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Semiconductor microcavities (MC) are structures consisting of a heterostructure,
 such as a quantum well (QW) or a heterojunction, which are embedded between
 two high reflectivity distributed Bragg reflectors (DBR).
 In these structures the photonic mode is spatially confined inside the
 cavity layer.
 When the cavity layer width is comparable to the exciton wavelength, interactio
n between the exciton and the confined photon takes place.
 The interaction strength can be described in two regimes: (a) the weak
 coupling regime, where this interaction can be described by perturbation
 theory, and (b) the strong coupling regime, where the system eigenenergies
 are Rabi split modes termed cavity polaritons.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Recently, reflection and photoluminescence (PL) spectroscopy studies of
 such structures containing a two-dimensional electron gas (2DEG) have been
 reported, revealing sharp polaritonic lines, composed of a cavity photon
 which is in strong interaction with unbound electron-hole (e-h) pair excitation
s, located at the Fermi edge of the 2DEG.
 In this study, we present a theoretical framework for the modeling of MCs
 with embedded QWs, and thereby investigate the interaction of such electron-hol
e pairs with the light field excitations within these structures near the
 Fermi edge.
 We start by considering the electronic properties of a bare QW via a two-level
 
\begin_inset Formula $\mathbf{k\cdot p}$
\end_inset

 method, where the 2DEG influence is incorporated through a self-consistent
 the Schrödinger-Poisson model.
 Once the electronic properties of the QW are found, the light-matter interactio
n in the QW is modeled via a semi classical approach.
 We assume a dipole light-matter interaction, and discuss two approximated
 methods to model the optical properties of the considered QW: (a) the free-carr
ier model, where the Coulombic interaction is absent and the dephasing is
 modeled phenomenologically, and (b) the screened Coulomb-correlated model,
 where we incorporate both the Coulombic interactions between the charge
 carrier and also discuss the mutual screening effect.
 This calculation is performed with and without the presence of the 2DEG
 in the well region of the QW, yielding the complex electrical susceptibility,
 absorption and spontaneous emission spectra of the investigated of the
 structure.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Next, the obtained electronic and optical properties of a bare QW are then
 used to calculate the reflection spectra of the full MC structure, with
 QW embedded in their cavity region.
 This is achieved by using the refractive index spectrum of the QW, obtained
 from its electrical susceptibility calculation, in the transfer matrix
 calculation of the entire MC reflection spectrum.
 As for the bare QW, the calculation is performed with and without the presence
 of 2DEG of various concentrations.
 Finally, the formulated approach is utilized to calculate the reflection
 anti-crossing curves of the investigated MC structures, which are analyzed
 manually and through a fitting procedure to the coupled-oscillator model.
 This allows us to investigate the influence of the 2DEG of variable concentrati
ons on the coupling strength of the electron-hole resonances with the cavity
 photons and of the polaritonic linewidths.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
We show that the strong interaction of the cavity-confined photon with the
 interband excitations of the two-dimensional electron gas leads to the
 formation of cavity polaritons.
 The most significant result is the demonstration that cavity polaritons
 are indeed formed for high 2DEG densities at the Fermi edge energies.
 In comparison, our model calculations show that excitons are not formed
 in bare QWs having a 2DEG with such densities.
 The coherence between all these e-h pair excitations is induced by the
 strong interaction with the cavity mode, in contrast with the exciton-polariton
s case, where the coherence stems from the Coulomb interaction between the
 electron and hole.
 
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Semiconductor microcavities (MC), which typically consist of a 
\begin_inset Formula $GaAs$
\end_inset

 layer with Bragg mirrors on the top and bottom, have been the subject of
 intense research more than a decade, since the first experimental evidence
 of strong coupling between the excitations of an electronic system located
 in the cavity and the confined photons 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
key "Weisbuch1992"

\end_inset

.
 This strong coupling is typically realized by embedding a quantum well
 (QW) in the center of the MC.
 If the QW exhibits a pronounced exciton transition whose energy is nearly
 resonant with that of the confined photon, and when both bare exciton and
 empty cavity linewidths are small enough, a strong exciton-photon coupling
 is manifest by the appearance of two lines on the reflection spectra.
 The so called Rabi splitting between these two modes is controlled by the
 cavity and the QW exciton properties 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
key "Quattropani1995,Burstein1995"

\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In fact, much of the physics of light-matter interaction was first studied
 in the field of atomic physics, where a Rabi splitting was manifest for
 a single atom confined in a metallic cavity 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
key "Burstein1995"

\end_inset

.
 The simplest model for the interaction of a radiation field with atoms
 is the Jaynes-Cummings model 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
key "Jaynes1962"

\end_inset

 which treats the case of a single two-level atom interacting with a single-mode
 radiation field, using the dipole and rotating wave approximations.
 When the photon energy matches the energy difference between the excited
 and ground states of the atom, the lowest excited states of the system
 are no longer degenerate.
 The new eigenstates of the system are thus superpositions of the uncoupled
 system states with an energy difference given by the Rabi frequency.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The solid state analog was first discussed by Hopfield 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
key "Hopfield1958"

\end_inset

, who showed that momentum conservation in bulk semiconductors constrains
 an exciton to couple only to a photon with the same wavevector.
 If the damping is weak enough, the new eigenstates are mixed photon-exciton
 modes, named exciton-polaritons.
 In contrast to the two-level atom case, the exciton-photon coupling strength
 is constant, for a given semiconductor, and does not depend on the exciton
 density.
 The use of MCs with embedded QW enables to easily control and enlarge the
 exciton-photon coupling strength.
 The polaritonic splitting, determined by the exciton oscillator strength,
 is about two-times larger for the 2D system compared the bulk semiconductor
 case, which facilitates the easy attainment of the strong coupling regime
 in such a system.
 The spectroscopic and dynamic properties of polaritons resulting from the
 basic resonances of the QW have been extensively studied.
 For planar MCs with embedded QWs, the photon-exciton interactions lead
 to crystal momentum conservation, resulting in a well defined polariton
 dispersion in this plane.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Thin dielectric structure growth technology has undergone a rapid development
 thougout the last two-decades, facilitating the creation of ever more elaborate
 structures for the investigation of light-matter interactions, in which
 the coupling strength is easily amplified and controlled.
 Such systems are typically comprised of commonly used alloy semiconductors
 such as 
\begin_inset Formula $GaAs$
\end_inset

, 
\begin_inset Formula $AlAs$
\end_inset

 and 
\begin_inset Formula $Al_{x}Ga_{1-x}As$
\end_inset

.
 The first experiments that examined the spontaneous emission amplification
 in QW via light trapping were conducted by Yamamoto, where a change in
 the emission has been detected for high finesse semiconductor MCs.
 The strong coupling of QW excitons with the MC trapped photons was first
 shown experimentally by Weisbuch 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
key "Weisbuch1992"

\end_inset

, which is in fact the first demonstration of a MC polariton.
 In this system the Rabi splitting is proportional to the excitonic oscillator
 strength.
 As the lowest energy excitons in the QW (the heavy and light hole excitons)
 are those with the strongest oscillator strength, the strong coupling regime
 can be easily reached.
 Thus the spectroscopic and dynamic properties of such MC polaritons have
 been extensively investigated.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In quantum structures comprised of 
\begin_inset Formula $GaAs/Al_{x}Ga_{1-x}As$
\end_inset

 QWs, the ground state of the electronic system is determined by the carriers
 populating the conduction band resulting from the structure modulation
 doping.
 This doping can be attained through several growth techniques, of which
 we concentrate in the 
\begin_inset Formula $\delta$
\end_inset

-doping scheme where a monoatomic layer of dopants is placed during the
 structure growth in the cladding regions of the QW.
 In such a structure, the QW conduction band electrons can be described
 as a two-dimensional electron gas (2DEG).
 The properties of such a gas can be probed through various experimental
 techniques, such as optical spectra measurements and transform measurements
 based on the quantum Hall effect.
 The first approach enables the investigation of the entire spectrum of
 the gas, in contrast with the transport measurements which provide a glimpse
 only to the Fermi energy edge states of the electronic system.
 The spectroscopic measurements, conducted at low temperatures and under
 applied magnetic field, exhibit multi-particle phenomena stemming from
 electron-electron and electron-hole interactions in the presence of the
 2DEG.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In order to investigate the interactions between the electronic resonances
 of the QW and the MC photonic mode as a function of the their energetic
 difference, a quantum structure has to constructed where the energy of
 one of the two can be altered in a controllable and constant fashion.
 To this end, the MC structure is constructed of layers with variable width
 along the diameter of the sample wafer.
 The end result of this approach is that the exciton energy can be treated
 as constant compared to that of the MC photon mode.
 Through illumination of a specific location along the sample the system
 can be brought to a interaction state where the photon mode energy equals
 that of the electronic resonance.
 The achieved coupling is typically described by two models.
 The first is the coupled oscillator model, in which each one of the interacting
 resonances is described by a simple quantum oscillator.
 Here, the coupling Hamiltonian of the exciton and photon with a specific
 coupling strength can be diagonalized in order to obtain the polariton
 energy spectum.
 A convenient form for the representation of the polaritonic excitation
 mode are the anti-crossing diagrams, which plot the polariron energy as
 a function of the energetic difference between the excitons and the photon,
 
\begin_inset Formula $\delta$
\end_inset

.
 Away from the resonance region of the system (
\begin_inset Formula $|\delta|\gg0$
\end_inset

), the polariton energies equal the energies of the uncoupled exciton and
 photon, while close to the resonance (
\begin_inset Formula $\delta\approx0$
\end_inset

) these energies deviate from those of the exciton and amount to the Rabi
 splitting of the system.
 An alternative method for the description of this coupled system is the
 linear dispersion model (LDM), where the transfer matrix formalism is employed.
 Here, the refractive index of the QW is described by an effective refractive
 index where the exciton is modeled by an Lorentzian oscillator.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Recently, several experimental studies have been conducted 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
key "Gabbay2007,Gabbay2007a,Gabbay2008"

\end_inset

 that examine the interaction of a 2DEG, introduced inside the QW through
 various doping mechanisms, with the MC photon.
 These studies have shown that in a doped QW placed inside a MC with high
 2DEG concentrations (
\begin_inset Formula $n_{e}\geq0.9\times10^{11}\, cm^{-2}$
\end_inset

), where the system is devoid of excitons, there are still traces of strong
 interaction between the trapped photonic mode and various electronic resonances
 of the QW.
 This finding confronts the accepted view that the disappearance of well
 excitons leads to the destruction of the polaritonic modes.
 As an explanation for this phenomenon, it was conjectured that the source
 of the observed polaritonic lines are unbound electron-hole pairs with
 Fermi wavevector.
 The coherence between these pairs, dictated by the observed strong interaction,
 was assumed to originate from the strong interaction itself.
 For the verification of this proposition, a thorough experimental study
 was conducted including the measurement of the reflection and photoluminescence
 spectra such structures in the presence of 2DEG, with and without the applicati
on of external magnetic field.
 The introduction of the magnetic field facilitates in the separation of
 the interaction of the photonic mode with the 2DEG electrons and with the
 well excitations.
 The obtained experimental results were backed by theoretical calculations
 including the the dispersion relations of the studied QWs, the optical
 susceptibility of these wells and finally the phenomenological dipole moments.
 In order to calculate the reflection spectra the transfer matrix method
 was employed.
 The obtained experimental results were then fitted using the proposed experimen
tal models in order to extract various experimental parameters.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In this thesis we present a theoretical study of the electronic and optical
 properties of MCs with a single embedded QW in the cavity region and introduced
 2DEG.
 Here we propose a new modeling approach of such structures based on basic
 physical considerations, which stands in contrast to the accepted convention
 of fitting phenomenological models to experimental measurement results.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We start the analysis in chapter 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "cha:Electronic_Properties_Semiconductors"

\end_inset

 by discussing the electronic properties of bulk semiconductors and quantum
 structures based on them.
 We start by presenting the most general formulation of the crystal Hamiltonian
 which is then simplified using the the Bloch formalism.
 In order to solve the appropriate 
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

Schr
\backslash
"{o}dinger
\end_layout

\end_inset

 equation, we resort to the semi-empirical 
\begin_inset Formula $\mathbf{k}\cdot\mathbf{p}$
\end_inset

 approach where only part of the conduction and valence subbands of the
 crystal are contributing, while all others are introduced as perturbations
 to the Hamiltonian.
 In order to describe the subband behavior of inhomogeneous quantum structures,
 we use the envelope function approximation for the description of the crystal
 Bloch function, and employ the Zinc-Blende model for the description of
 the bulk semiconductor.
 For the computational complexity simplification, we reformulate the problem
 using the two-band approximation, described by a 
\begin_inset Formula $4\times4$
\end_inset

 Hamiltonian matrix and the semi-empirical Luttinger parameters, which is
 further simplified by a diagonalization scheme which bring the problem
 down to a 
\begin_inset Formula $2\times2$
\end_inset

 Hamiltonian formulation.
 In this model, the conduction subbands are obtained using the effective
 mass approximation, where a parabolic dispersion relation is assumed.
 The solution the of the resulting coupled equations system for each value
 of the wave vector is obtained through the use of a transfer matrix formulation
 of the finite difference method computational scheme.
 The end result of this approach is a set of envelope functions and eigenenergie
s for each of the conduction and valence subbands, calculated for a wide
 diapason of wavevector values.
 These envelope functions are are subsequently used to calculate the matrix
 elements of the momentum in the dipole approximation, thereby providing
 the selection rules for the energetic intersubband transitions of the structure.
 In order to consider the influence of external electrons on the electronic
 properties of the QW, we add the proposed calculation scheme an electrostatic
 calculation in the form of an iterative Poisson problem solution together
 with the 
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

Schr
\backslash
"{o}dinger
\end_layout

\end_inset

 problem at hand.
 This iterative approach introduces the influence of the presence of the
 additional carriers through the subsequent alteration of the conduction
 and valence bands energetic profiles.
 In addition, through this quantitative presentation we introduce quantitatively
 the concept of the 2DEG, which plays a major role in all considered quantum
 structures throughout this thesis.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
With the consolidation of the model for the calculation of the electronic
 properties of the considered structures, we turn in chapters 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "cha:Free_Carriers_Optical_Transitions"

\end_inset

 and 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "cha:Coulomb_Correlated_Optical_Transitions"

\end_inset

 to deal with their various optical properties.
 To this end, we present in these chapters approximate models for the calculatio
n of various optical parameters, including the optical susceptibility, absorptio
n and the spontaneous emission of these structures.
 For the sake of simplicity, we confine ourselves to a semi-classical discussion
 of the semiconductor, where the charge carriers are described quantum mechanica
lly while the electromagnetic (EM) field description is classical in nature.
 We start by performing a second quantization of the full system Hamiltonian
 without the presence of the EM field, thereby introducing the concept of
 the hole.
 The EM field is subsequently added to the Hamiltonian under the dipole
 approximation.
 For the attainment of the macroscopic optical parameters of the system
 such as the optical susceptibility, we are required to first obtain the
 microscopic polarization.
 To this end, we turn to the solution of the Heisenberg equation for the
 suitable quantum operator, with the use of the full Hamiltonian of the
 system containing the light-matter interaction terms.
 The microscopic polarization equation is coupled with similar equations
 for the charge carrier densities quantum operators, which leads to the
 creation of system of three coupled equations typically termed the Bloch
 semiconductor equations.
 The solutions of this system of equations is the main focus of theoretical
 discussion presented in these chapter, which is performed in several stages.
 In chapter 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "cha:Free_Carriers_Optical_Transitions"

\end_inset

 we ignore to Coulombic interaction present between the various charge carriers
 in the system, together with assumed equilibrium conditions between them
 and simple phenomenological description of the carrier scattering process
 in the crystal.
 In chapter 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "cha:Coulomb_Correlated_Optical_Transitions"

\end_inset

 we reincorporate the Coulombic interaction, which leads to a self dependent
 series of equations treated in a approximate fashion using the Hartree-Fock
 approach with the Hamiltonian first order deduction.
 As in chapter 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "cha:Free_Carriers_Optical_Transitions"

\end_inset

, an equilibrium conditions are assumed for the charge carriers and a naive
 phenomenological model for the carrier scattering is employed.
 In addition to these considerations, in this chapter we introduce the the
 carrier screening effect through the classical Lindhard model of the crystal
 dielectric function.
 The addition of the Coulombic interaction to the model leads to the appearance
 of the bandgap renormalization effect, the magnitude of which is strongly
 dependent on the concentration of the introduced charge carriers in the
 system.
 Both approaches presented in these chapters, provide us with the spectra
 of the electrical susceptibility, absorption, refractive index and the
 spontaneous emission for a single bare QW.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Using the introduced models, we next perform full calculation of the optical
 properties of quantum structures considered in this thesis, in particular
 of two variations of single bare 
\begin_inset Formula $GaAs/Al_{x}Ga_{1-x}As$
\end_inset

 QWs, the first devoid of external charge carriers in the well area and
 the latter with a 2DEG introduced through a 
\begin_inset Formula $\delta$
\end_inset

-doping in the cladding area.
 For these two structures we compare the absorption and spontaneous emission
 spectra calculated using the two theoretical models elaborated above and
 to the classical Elliot model.
 For the doped structures, we also consider the influence of the 2DEG concentrat
ion on the spectral properties of the structure, performing the calculations
 for various ambient temperatures, namely 
\begin_inset Formula $T=2K$
\end_inset

 and 
\begin_inset Formula $T=77K$
\end_inset

.
 From the calculation results for the two structures, we easily observe
 the clear influence of the Coulombic interaction on the absorption and
 spontaneous emission spectra, through the appearance of clear characteristic
 resonative lines suitable to excitonic coupling observed in such structures.
 Identification of the observed interactions becomes possible by performing
 calculations of the electronic subbands of the considered structures using
 the results of chapter 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "cha:Electronic_Properties_Semiconductors"

\end_inset

.
 These line, which clearly appear in the first structures and also for low
 concentrations of the 2DEG in the second one, gradually dissipate with
 the rise of the carrier concentration as a direct consequence of the electronic
 screening effect.
 In addition, the excitonic lines undergo an energetic shift towards high
 energies as a result of the effective bandgap renormalization and the filling
 of the state space by the additional free charge carriers.
 Another classical effect, exhibited in the comparison of the emission spectra,
 is the Burstein-Moss splitting which leads to the separation of the maxima
 of the absorption and spontaneous emission spectra with the rise of the
 2DEG concentration inside the QW.
 The experimentally observed asymmetric spontaneous emission spectral lineshape
 is observed for high gas concentrations, typical for such structures measured
 at low temperatures.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In chapter 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "cha:Microcavity"

\end_inset

 we turn to the discussion of the main topic of this thesis, namely the
 microcavity structure.
 We first present the basic concepts of a classical optical resonator and
 discuss the implementation of such resonators through the growth of thin
 epitaxial layers composed of two or more types of semiconductor materials
 resulting in a creation of a couple of distributed Bragg reflector (DBR)
 mirrors with a cavity region of a target wavelength whole multiple width
 between the two.
 We present numerical methods for the calculation of transmition and reflection
 spectra of such structures, and in particular the classical transfer matrix
 method (TMM).
 After discussing the optical properties of these microcavities, we elaborate
 on the quantum interaction theory of the optical and electronic excitation
 in microcavities, and develop the concept of microcavity polariton.
 To this end, we first discuss the Jaynes-Cummings model of a two-level
 absorber developed in the framework of atomic physics and utilize it for
 the demonstration of the Rabi splitting of such a system when coupled with
 a single EM field mode.
 This simple model can be generalized to a system with multiple such absorbers,
 describing the interaction between the electronic resonances created inside
 the QW placed in the cavity region and the EM field modes of this cavity.
 Equivalently to the atomic theory, we show formulation of the coupled oscillato
r model for such a system, and thereby introduce the concept of the polariton
 as a coupling between the electron-hole resonance and the mode of the EM
 field.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In order to investigate the optical properties of a microcavity with an
 embedded QW in the cavity region, a way must be found to incorporate the
 two in a unified computational framework.
 To this end, we present a new approach based in the classical linear dispersion
 model (LDM), where the phenomenological description of the refractive index
 of the QW is replaced by the results of the models presented in earlier
 chapter.
 This differs from the common approach of fitting the theoretical models
 to experimentally extracted data, and enables us to extract the optical
 properties of the entire structure from the optical properties of a bare
 QW obtained from basic physical principles.
 After the introduction of the computational procedure, we apply it to a
 particular MC structure, which has also been previously investigated experiment
ally.
 We first present the calculated reflection spectra for of bare MC structure,
 and find that a linear change in the width of the epitaxially grown dielectric
 layers comprising the structure leads a proportional linear shift in the
 spectral position of the cavity mode of the trapped light.
 Next, we introduce the two types of QWs, discussed in chapter 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "cha:Coulomb_Correlated_Optical_Transitions"

\end_inset

, inside the cavity region of this MC.
 For the two resulting structures, we present the calculation results of
 the reflection spectra obtained for various values of the broadening coefficien
t 
\begin_inset Formula $\delta$
\end_inset

.
 From these spectra we extract the energetic locations of the reflection
 for all values of 
\begin_inset Formula $\delta$
\end_inset

 and thereby attain the anti-crossing curves for each structure.
 Along these curves a typical splitting can be seen near the interaction
 region between the EM field mode of the MC and the electron-hole resonances
 of the QW.
 By fitting these curves to a coupled oscillator mode a set of parameters
 can be extracted, which enable us to evaluate the properties of these light-mat
ter interaction and their strength.
 For the structure with devoid of 2DEG in the well region, this analysis
 affirms these interaction to be well in the strong coupling regime.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For the second structure, with the introduced 2DEG inside the well region,
 we also examine the influence of the carrier concentration on the properties
 of these interactions.
 Through the comparison of the anti-crossing curves attained for each of
 the concentrations we observe the existence of a strong coupling between
 the EM field mode and the electron-hole resonances up 
\begin_inset Formula $n_{e}\approx1\times10^{11}\, cm^{-2}$
\end_inset

.
 This differs from the results obtained in chapter 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "cha:Coulomb_Correlated_Optical_Transitions"

\end_inset

 for the bare QW, where the excitonic resonances disappear at gas concentrations
 above 
\begin_inset Formula $\approx6\times10^{10}\, cm^{-2}$
\end_inset

.
 By comparing the observed resonance energies of this MC reflection spectra
 to the calculation results of the intersubband transition energies of a
 bare single QW, we show that they match the allowed transitions near the
 Fermi edge of the structure and not the Brillouin zone center.
 This observation is compatible to the experimental observations presented
 earlier, and attests to the fact that the strong coupling between the EM
 field mode and the Fermi edge electron-hole resonance is cause to the appearanc
e of the observed lines in the reflection spectra.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
By fitting these anti-crossing curves to the coupled oscillator model and
 manual extraction of various parameters, we examine the coupling strength
 and the linewidths of discussed resonances.
 We see that while the coupling strength diminishes with the 2DEG concentration,
 the linewidth rises considerably, but the coupling stays well within the
 bounds of the strong coupling regime.
 Finally, by extracting the admixing parameters of various resonances from
 the coupled oscillator fitting results, we examine the contents of the
 various anti-crossing branches in the attained curves.
 Again, we observe the crucial part of the EM field mode of the MC in maintainin
g the strong coupling with the electron-hole resonance even at high 2DEG
 concentrations.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
