#LyX 1.6.8 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 345
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass report
\use_default_options true
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\author "" 
\author "" 
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter*
Abstract
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
addcontentsline{toc}{chapter}{Abstract}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Semiconductor microcavities (MC) are structures consisting of a heterostructure,
 such as a quantum well (QW) or a heterojunction, which are embedded between
 two high reflectivity distributed Bragg reflectors (DBR).
 In these structures the photonic mode is spatially confined inside the
 cavity layer.
 When the cavity layer width is comparable to the exciton wavelength, interactio
n between the exciton and the confined photon takes place.
 The interaction strength can be described in two regimes: (a) the weak
 coupling regime, where this interaction can be described by perturbation
 theory, and (b) the strong coupling regime, where the system eigenenergies
 are Rabi split modes termed cavity polaritons.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Recently, reflection and photoluminescence (PL) spectroscopy studies of
 such structures containing a two-dimensional electron gas (2DEG) have been
 reported, revealing sharp polaritonic lines, composed of a cavity photon
 which is in strong interaction with unbound electron-hole (e-h) pair excitation
s, located at the Fermi edge of the 2DEG.
 In this study, we present a theoretical framework for the modeling of MCs
 with embedded QWs, and thereby investigate the interaction of such electron-hol
e pairs with the light field excitations within these structures near the
 Fermi edge.
 We start by considering the electronic properties of a bare QW via a two-level
 
\begin_inset Formula $\mathbf{k\cdot p}$
\end_inset

 method, where the 2DEG influence is incorporated through a self-consistent
 the Schrödinger-Poisson model.
 Once the electronic properties of the QW are found, the light-matter interactio
n in the QW is modeled via a semi classical approach.
 We assume a dipole light-matter interaction, and discuss two approximated
 methods to model the optical properties of the considered QW: (a) the free-carr
ier model, where the Coulombic interaction is absent and the dephasing is
 modeled phenomenologically, and (b) the screened Coulomb-correlated model,
 where we incorporate both the Coulombic interactions between the charge
 carrier and also discuss the mutual screening effect.
 This calculation is performed with and without the presence of the 2DEG
 in the well region of the QW, yielding the complex electrical susceptibility,
 absorption and spontaneous emission spectra of the investigated of the
 structure.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Next, the obtained electronic and optical properties of a bare QW are then
 used to calculate the reflection spectra of the full MC structure, with
 QW embedded in their cavity region.
 This is achieved by using the refractive index spectrum of the QW, obtained
 from its electrical susceptibility calculation, in the transfer matrix
 calculation of the entire MC reflection spectrum.
 As for the bare QW, the calculation is performed with and without the presence
 of 2DEG of various concentrations.
 Finally, the formulated approach is utilized to calculate the reflection
 anti-crossing curves of the investigated MC structures, which are analyzed
 manually and through a fitting procedure to the coupled-oscillator model.
 This allows us to investigate the influence of the 2DEG of variable concentrati
ons on the coupling strength of the electron-hole resonances with the cavity
 photons and of the polaritonic linewidths.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We show that the strong interaction of the cavity-confined photon with the
 interband excitations of the two-dimensional electron gas leads to the
 formation of cavity polaritons.
 The most significant result is the demonstration that cavity polaritons
 are indeed formed for high 2DEG densities at the Fermi edge energies.
 In comparison, our model calculations show that excitons are not formed
 in bare QWs having a 2DEG with such densities.
 The coherence between all these e-h pair excitations is induced by the
 strong interaction with the cavity mode, in contrast with the exciton-polariton
s case, where the coherence stems from the Coulomb interaction between the
 electron and hole.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
