#LyX 1.6.8 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 345
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass report
\use_default_options true
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\author "" 
\author "" 
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter*
Summary and Outlook
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
addcontentsline{toc}{chapter}{Summary and Outlook}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In this work we presented a theoretical study of the various aspects of
 light-matter interactions taking place in variety of quantum structures,
 such as bare quantum wells and semiconductor microcavities, and the influence
 of the introduced 2DEG on their optical properties.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We start our discussion in chapter 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "cha:Electronic_Properties_Semiconductors"

\end_inset

 by presenting the electronic properties of quantum well structures.
 After a general introduction of the approximate 
\begin_inset Formula $\mathbf{k\cdot p}$
\end_inset

 approach, we concern ourselves with the two-band variation of this method,
 mainly due to its implementation simplicity.
 Using this approach we calculate the dispersion relations of the conduction
 and valence subbands in a bulk semiconductor and single bare quantum well.
 The influence of the crystallographic orientation on the results is examined
 and found to be minor in the relevant portion of the 
\begin_inset Formula $k$
\end_inset

-space.
 This observation allows us to simplify our calculations by assuming full
 angular symmetry of the QW in the 
\begin_inset Formula $k$
\end_inset

-space without a substantial loss to the generality.
 Next, we consider the introduction of doping inside the quantum well and
 explore its influence on the electronic properties.
 To this end, we add to our quantum mechanical approach a complementary
 electrostatic part in the form of Poisson equation solution for the specific
 charge distribution.
 Through this approach we attain doping dependent corrections to the band
 edges of the considered QW, which introduce minor corrections to the conduction
 and valence subband energies in the middle of the first Brillouin region.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Once we have obtained the electronic properties of bare QWs with introduced
 2DEG of various concentrations, we turn to the investigation of the optical
 properties of these structures.
 Our approach to this task is semi-classical in its core, where only the
 matter, i.e.
 the semiconductor, is treated quantum mechanically.
 In chapter 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "cha:Free_Carriers_Optical_Transitions"

\end_inset

, we first assume that the carriers present in the semiconductor are free
 and noninteracting, and only simple dephasing mechanism is used.
 We complicate this simple picture in chapter 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "cha:Coulomb_Correlated_Optical_Transitions"

\end_inset

 by the introduction of Coulombic interaction between the electrons and
 holes in the structure, together with a simple screening scheme to model
 the influence of the introduced high concentration 2DEG.
 Although these models are both approximate in nature, they enable us to
 compute various optical parameters of the bare QWs under the assumption
 of dipole interaction of the electronic system with the optical field.
 Using this approach we compute the electrical susceptibility and spontaneous
 emission spectra of the structure, through which the absorption and refractive
 indices can be easily computed.
 This computation is then performed for QWs with and without the presence
 of 2DEG carriers inside the well region, and for a wide diapason of these
 carriers' concentrations, all these for various ambient temperatures.
 By comparing the computation results of these two models, we reach the
 expected conclusion that the introduction of the Coulombic interaction
 changes dramatically the obtained results.
 The introduced Coulomb enhancement of reproduces strong bellow-bandgap
 resonance lines for the undoped QW absorption and spontaneous emission
 spectra, which are in good agreement with other theoretical models discussed
 in literature.
 The observed bandgap renormalization for the Coulomb correlated model results
 also match the classical theoretical dependence of the 2DEG carriers concentrat
ion.
 The results of the doped QW spectra computation lead to several noticeable
 effects.
 First, the introduction of additional 2DEG carriers leads to a significant
 reduction in the strength of the observed absorption resonance lines, causing
 their effective disappearance for concentrations above 
\begin_inset Formula $\approx6\times10^{10}\, cm^{-2}$
\end_inset

.
 Second, the added 2DEG carriers lead to the appearance of a characteristic
 inhomogeneous broadened line in the spontaneous emission at low ambient
 temperature of 
\begin_inset Formula $2\, K$
\end_inset

.
 Finally, through the dynamics of the spontaneous emission and the absorption
 spectra with the 2DEG carriers concentration, we observe a Burstein-Moss
 shift causing a split between the two types of spectra for high concentrations.
 As a consequence of the attained results for the bare QW, we chose the
 Coulomb correlated model to be used for the modeling of such structures
 in the subsequent calculations.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Being in a position to model the electronic and optical properties of a
 bare QW, we next consider microcavities and their optical properties in
 chapter 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "cha:Microcavity"

\end_inset

.
 First we consider the reflectivity properties of such structures and the
 numerical method for their calculation, followed by a short discussion
 of the coupling of a quantum mechanical absorber with the light field mode
 inside the cavity region.
 The results of the bare QW optical properties calculations are incorporated
 into the full MC reflectivity computation through an altered form of the
 linear dispersion model, effectively introducing a QW inside the cavity
 region of the MC.
 This procedure enables us to perform an investigation of the reflection
 spectra of the entire MC structure, and thereby investigate the coupling
 of the cavity mode with the various bare QW resonances.
 The reflection spectra of the MC with undoped QW inside the cavity region
 revealed a strong coupling of the cavity mode with the various QW resonances,
 seen through the characteristic splittings of the anti-crossing curves
 in the regions of interaction.
 This observation is backed by the the parameters of a fit of the anti-crossing
 curves with the coupled oscillator model.
 Moreover, the polariton admixing coefficients, extracted through the fitting
 procedure, reaffirm this observation.
 As the next logical step, a doped bare QW is introduced inside the cavity
 region of the MC and the reflection spectra are calculated for various
 values of 2DEG concentration.
 The most striking feature of the obtained reflection anti-crossing curves
 is the appearance of strong coupling between the cavity mode photon and
 certain QW resonances at relatively high 2DEG concentrations, in contrast
 to the observed disappearance of all such resonances for the bare QW.
 By comparing the energetic locations of these resonances to the bare QW
 allowed energetic transitions, we identify them to be unbound electron-hole
 resonances at the Fermi edge energy.
 This finding coincides with earlier experimental results 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "Gabbay2007"

\end_inset

 for similar structures, and stands as the central finding of this work.
 When we compare the coupling strength parametes, extracted using the coupled
 oscillator fit of the reflection anti-crossing curves for various 2DEG
 concentrations, we find them to be generally larger from those obtained
 for the undoped QW case.
 This indicates to a higher coupling of the found electron-hole resonances
 with the cavity mode than the bare QW case.
 We conclude by stating that the main mechanism for the coherence between
 all the electron-hole pair excitations interacting with the confined cavity
 mode is the strong interaction itself, despite the existence of Coulomb
 attraction between the electron and hole.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Although this work presents a complete theoretical framework for the calculation
 of the optical properties of MC with embedded QWs, further research should
 be performed to gain better understanding of the origin of the strong interacti
on between the confined cavity mode and the electron-hole pair resonances
 at the Fermi edge.
 Here we present several possible pathways that may taken to address this
 issues:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
As we have stated above, both the free carrier and Coulomb correlated models,
 used to calculate the bare QW electrical susceptibility, do not take into
 account higher order correlation effects and relaxation mechanisms.
 Such extensions are farely easy to introduce into the current framework,
 probably at the expense of computational complexity.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
In addition to the improved modelling of the bare QW, a cavity dampling
 mechanism can be introduced to the MC modeling in order to approximate
 the cavity mode behavior to the physical reality.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
An angular calculation of the reflection spectra of the MC with embedded
 QW can be performed, in order to obtain the dispersion relation of the
 various polaritonic branches and thereby attain a better insight into their
 electronic nature.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
In addition to the calculation of the reflection spectra of the entire MC,
 the spontaneous emission spectra should also be calculated and compared.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Since excitons and unbound electrons and holes exhibit very different dependence
 on magnetic field (respectively diamagnetic and linear), the electronic
 model of the bare QW should be extended to include the influence of external
 magnetic field.
 Dispersion calculations in weak magnetic fields should provide a clue as
 to the nature of the various polaritonic branches.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
The temperature analysis performed in this work for the bare QW should be
 extended to the full MC calculations, especially when the linewidths of
 the various polaritonic branches are considered, as it may facilitate in
 differentiating between excitons and unbound electron-hole pair resonances.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
